---
layout: post
title:  "Starters"
date:   2016-12-10 10:58:00 +1100
categories: starters
---

# To Start

[View here as a PDF]({{ site.url }}/assets/2016-12-10-starters.pdf) that you can print

- [Labne][labne-recipe]
- [Beetroot Tzatziki][beetroot-recipe]
- [Baba Ganoush][baba-recipe]
- Haloumi with Honey
- Eggplant with pomegranate, feta, and maybe this [sauce][tahini-sauce-recipe]
- [Fresh Pita][pita-recipe]

#### **Labne**

We can make our own labne or buy it. It's pretty easy to make, but takes a few days.
You've got to leave the yogurt to strain and then roll the result into balls and soak
in a jar with olive oil and herbs. Here is a [recipe][labne-recipe]

#### **Beetroot Tzatziki**

- 4 medium beets, roasted and grated
- 2 garlic cloves, minced
- 3 tablespoons lemon juice
- 1 1/2 cups Suzme (recipe follows)(or just greek yogurt)
- Sea salt and freshly ground pepper
- 2 to 3 tablespoons olive oil
- 2 tablespoons finely chopped fresh parsley
- 2 tablespoons coarsely chopped walnuts

1. Combine the beets, garlic, lemon juice and suzme, and season. Serve drizzled with the olive oil, and
sprinkled with the parsley and walnuts.

#### **Baba Ganoush**
- 3 medium Italian eggplants (about 2 pounds total)
- 3 medium cloves of garlic, minced
- 2 tablespoons juice from 1 lemon, plus more as desired
- 3 tablespoons tahini
- 1/3 cup extra-virgin olive oil, plus more for serving
- 1/4 cup chopped fresh parsley leaves
- Kosher salt

1. If using a gas burner or grill (recommended): Preheat a gas or coal grill to medium heat and place eggplants directly over heat source. Cook, turning occasionally with tongs, until completely tender and well charred on all sides, 30 to 40 minutes. Wrap with foil and let rest 15 minutes. Continue to step 3.
2. If using the broiler: Adjust rack to 6 inches below broiler element and preheat broiler to high. Place eggplant on a foil-lined rimmed baking sheet. Broil, turning occasionally, until charred on all sides and completely tender, about 1 hour. Eggplants should be very, very tender when cooked. Test near the stem and bottom ends. If a toothpick or skewer meets any resistance, continue cooking. (See note above.) Remove from oven and gather up foil, crimping it around the eggplants to form a sealed package. Let the eggplants rest for 15 minutes. Continue to step 3.
3. Open foil package. Working one eggplant at a time, use a sharp paring knife to slit it open lengthwise. Carefully scoop out soft flesh with a large spoon and transfer to a strainer set in a large bowl. Once all eggplant is scooped, pick out any stray bits of skin and blackened flesh and discard.
4. Transfer eggplant to a salad spinner, distributing it evenly around the perimeter. Spin gently until all excess moisture is extracted. Discard all drippings, wipe out bowl. and return eggplant to bowl.
5. Add garlic and lemon juice to eggplant and stir vigorously with a fork until eggplant breaks down into a rough paste, about 1 1/2 minutes. Stirring constantly and vigorously, add the tahini followed by the olive oil in a thin, steady stream. The mixture should become pale and creamy. Stir in parsley and season to taste with salt and more lemon juice if desired.
6. Transfer to a serving bowl, drizzle with olive oil, and serve with warm pita bread or vegetables for dipping. Baba ganoush can be stored in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to four days. Let baba ganoush warm to room temperature before serving.

#### **Fresh Pita**

Fresh pita doesn't look too hard and would be delicious. I will do a test for this
prior to Christmas and if it turns out awful, we'll do something else.
Here is the [recipe][pita-recipe]

- 1 cup (8 ounces) water, 105–110°F
- 1 tablespoon extra-virgin olive oil, plus more for oiling the bowl
- 1 - tablespoon granulated sugar
- 2 1/4 teaspoons instant yeast
- 1 teaspoon kosher salt
- 1/2 cup (2 1/2 ounces) whole wheat flour
- 2 cups (10 ounces) all-purpose flour, plus extra for dusting

1. Mix water, oil, sugar, yeast, salt, and whole wheat flour with a wooden spoon until combined and smooth. Stir in all-purpose flour until the mixture comes together into a shaggy mass.
2. Using clean hands, knead the dough in the bowl for 10 minutes until it becomes smooth and very elastic, adding only very small amounts of extra flour if dough is extremely sticky (see note above). Alternatively, knead dough at low speed in a stand mixer fitted with the dough hook attachment until dough is very elastic and smooth, about 8 minutes.
3. Turn the dough out onto a lightly floured work surface and form into a smooth ball. Lightly oil a clean mixing bowl and place the dough inside, then rub oiled hands over the top of the dough. Cover bowl with a damp cloth and let rise in a warm place for 1 hour.
4. Meanwhile, place a baking stone on the top oven rack and preheat oven to 500°F. Line a plate with a large, clean kitchen towel and set aside.
5. Punch down the dough, transfer to a lightly floured work surface, and cut into 6 even pieces. Form each dough piece into an even ball. Cover with a damp towel and let rest for 10 minutes.
6. Roll each piece of dough into a 7-inch circle, no more than 1/4 inch thick, taking care not to tear dough and keeping the thickness even all around. Place dough disks on a lightly floured surface, cover with a damp towel, and let proof until slightly puffy, about 20 minutes
7. Working with as many pitas as will fit on the stone at once, pick up each pita and place onto the stone top side down. Immediately close the oven door and bake until pitas have puffed and are slightly golden around the edges, about 3 minutes. Be careful not to over-bake. Place baked pitas onto towel-lined plate and wrap with the overhanging towel. Repeat with any remaining pitas.
8. Heat a cast iron skillet on high heat until smoking. Working with one pita at a time, briefly heat each side until charred in a few spots, about 30 seconds. Return pita to towel and cover. Repeat with remaining pitas and serve immediately.

#### **Haloumi**
- Haloumi (I can get lots of haloumi)
- Honey
- Thyme
- Walnuts
- Dates

#### **Eggplant**

This can be grilled on the BBQ if we want, or just roasted in the oven with feta
- Eggplant
- Feta
- Pomegranate (I think I can get these)
- Garlic
- Lemon
- Yogurt
- Tahini

[labne-recipe]: http://swirlandscramble.blogspot.com.au/2008/04/home-made-labneh-balls.html
[beetroot-recipe]: http://www.seriouseats.com/recipes/2011/08/beet-tzatziki-recipe.html
[pita-recipe]: http://www.seriouseats.com/recipes/2015/08/perfect-pita-bread-recipe.html
[baba-recipe]: http://www.seriouseats.com/recipes/2014/02/the-best-baba-ganoush-recipe.html
[tahini-sauce-recipe]: http://www.seriouseats.com/recipes/2016/03/israeli-style-tahini-sauce-recipe.html

[Get as a PDF]({{ site.url }}/assets/2016-12-10-starters.pdf)
