---
layout: post
title:  "The Menu"
date:   2016-12-10 10:58:00 +1100
categories: menu
---

# The Menu

It's probably really useful to have a full list of everything. This is just everything
from all the individual pages here.
[View it all as a PDF]({{ site.url }}/assets/2016-12-10-menu.pdf)

#### Starters
- [Labne][labne-recipe]
- [Beetroot Tzatziki][beetroot-recipe]
- [Baba Ganoush][baba-recipe]
- Haloumi with Honey
- Eggplant with pomegranate, feta, and maybe this [sauce][tahini-sauce-recipe]
- [Fresh Pita][pita-recipe]

#### Side Dishes
- [Chickpea Salad with Red Onion, Sumac, and Lemon][chickpea-recipe];
- Fresh salad;
- Cauliflower and Tahini Salad

#### Dessert
- Mums divine Almond Snakes **Note: I can get the fresh phyllo down here**
- Figs stuffed with chocolate and walnuts (or dates)
- [Babousa][babousa-recipe]

# To Start

[View here as a PDF]({{ site.url }}/assets/2016-12-10-starters.pdf) that you can print

- [Labne][labne-recipe]
- [Beetroot Tzatziki][beetroot-recipe]
- [Baba Ganoush][baba-recipe]
- Haloumi with Honey
- Eggplant with pomegranate, feta, and maybe this [sauce][tahini-sauce-recipe]
- [Fresh Pita][pita-recipe]

#### **Labne**

We can make our own labne or buy it. It's pretty easy to make, but takes a few days.
You've got to leave the yogurt to strain and then roll the result into balls and soak
in a jar with olive oil and herbs. Here is a [recipe][labne-recipe]

#### **Beetroot Tzatziki**

- 4 medium beets, roasted and grated
- 2 garlic cloves, minced
- 3 tablespoons lemon juice
- 1 1/2 cups Suzme (recipe follows)(or just greek yogurt)
- Sea salt and freshly ground pepper
- 2 to 3 tablespoons olive oil
- 2 tablespoons finely chopped fresh parsley
- 2 tablespoons coarsely chopped walnuts

1. Combine the beets, garlic, lemon juice and suzme, and season. Serve drizzled with the olive oil, and
sprinkled with the parsley and walnuts.

#### **Baba Ganoush**
- 3 medium Italian eggplants (about 2 pounds total)
- 3 medium cloves of garlic, minced
- 2 tablespoons juice from 1 lemon, plus more as desired
- 3 tablespoons tahini
- 1/3 cup extra-virgin olive oil, plus more for serving
- 1/4 cup chopped fresh parsley leaves
- Kosher salt

1. If using a gas burner or grill (recommended): Preheat a gas or coal grill to medium heat and place eggplants directly over heat source. Cook, turning occasionally with tongs, until completely tender and well charred on all sides, 30 to 40 minutes. Wrap with foil and let rest 15 minutes. Continue to step 3.
2. If using the broiler: Adjust rack to 6 inches below broiler element and preheat broiler to high. Place eggplant on a foil-lined rimmed baking sheet. Broil, turning occasionally, until charred on all sides and completely tender, about 1 hour. Eggplants should be very, very tender when cooked. Test near the stem and bottom ends. If a toothpick or skewer meets any resistance, continue cooking. (See note above.) Remove from oven and gather up foil, crimping it around the eggplants to form a sealed package. Let the eggplants rest for 15 minutes. Continue to step 3.
3. Open foil package. Working one eggplant at a time, use a sharp paring knife to slit it open lengthwise. Carefully scoop out soft flesh with a large spoon and transfer to a strainer set in a large bowl. Once all eggplant is scooped, pick out any stray bits of skin and blackened flesh and discard.
4. Transfer eggplant to a salad spinner, distributing it evenly around the perimeter. Spin gently until all excess moisture is extracted. Discard all drippings, wipe out bowl. and return eggplant to bowl.
5. Add garlic and lemon juice to eggplant and stir vigorously with a fork until eggplant breaks down into a rough paste, about 1 1/2 minutes. Stirring constantly and vigorously, add the tahini followed by the olive oil in a thin, steady stream. The mixture should become pale and creamy. Stir in parsley and season to taste with salt and more lemon juice if desired.
6. Transfer to a serving bowl, drizzle with olive oil, and serve with warm pita bread or vegetables for dipping. Baba ganoush can be stored in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to four days. Let baba ganoush warm to room temperature before serving.

#### **Fresh Pita**

Fresh pita doesn't look too hard and would be delicious. I will do a test for this
prior to Christmas and if it turns out awful, we'll do something else.
Here is the [recipe][pita-recipe]

- 1 cup (8 ounces) water, 105–110°F
- 1 tablespoon extra-virgin olive oil, plus more for oiling the bowl
- 1 - tablespoon granulated sugar
- 2 1/4 teaspoons instant yeast
- 1 teaspoon kosher salt
- 1/2 cup (2 1/2 ounces) whole wheat flour
- 2 cups (10 ounces) all-purpose flour, plus extra for dusting

1. Mix water, oil, sugar, yeast, salt, and whole wheat flour with a wooden spoon until combined and smooth. Stir in all-purpose flour until the mixture comes together into a shaggy mass.
2. Using clean hands, knead the dough in the bowl for 10 minutes until it becomes smooth and very elastic, adding only very small amounts of extra flour if dough is extremely sticky (see note above). Alternatively, knead dough at low speed in a stand mixer fitted with the dough hook attachment until dough is very elastic and smooth, about 8 minutes.
3. Turn the dough out onto a lightly floured work surface and form into a smooth ball. Lightly oil a clean mixing bowl and place the dough inside, then rub oiled hands over the top of the dough. Cover bowl with a damp cloth and let rise in a warm place for 1 hour.
4. Meanwhile, place a baking stone on the top oven rack and preheat oven to 500°F. Line a plate with a large, clean kitchen towel and set aside.
5. Punch down the dough, transfer to a lightly floured work surface, and cut into 6 even pieces. Form each dough piece into an even ball. Cover with a damp towel and let rest for 10 minutes.
6. Roll each piece of dough into a 7-inch circle, no more than 1/4 inch thick, taking care not to tear dough and keeping the thickness even all around. Place dough disks on a lightly floured surface, cover with a damp towel, and let proof until slightly puffy, about 20 minutes
7. Working with as many pitas as will fit on the stone at once, pick up each pita and place onto the stone top side down. Immediately close the oven door and bake until pitas have puffed and are slightly golden around the edges, about 3 minutes. Be careful not to over-bake. Place baked pitas onto towel-lined plate and wrap with the overhanging towel. Repeat with any remaining pitas.
8. Heat a cast iron skillet on high heat until smoking. Working with one pita at a time, briefly heat each side until charred in a few spots, about 30 seconds. Return pita to towel and cover. Repeat with remaining pitas and serve immediately.

#### **Haloumi**
- Haloumi (I can get lots of haloumi)
- Honey
- Thyme
- Walnuts
- Dates

#### **Eggplant**

This can be grilled on the BBQ if we want, or just roasted in the oven with feta
- Eggplant
- Feta
- Pomegranate (I think I can get these)
- Garlic
- Lemon
- Yogurt
- Tahini

[labne-recipe]: http://swirlandscramble.blogspot.com.au/2008/04/home-made-labneh-balls.html
[beetroot-recipe]: http://www.seriouseats.com/recipes/2011/08/beet-tzatziki-recipe.html
[pita-recipe]: http://www.seriouseats.com/recipes/2015/08/perfect-pita-bread-recipe.html
[baba-recipe]: http://www.seriouseats.com/recipes/2014/02/the-best-baba-ganoush-recipe.html
[tahini-sauce-recipe]: http://www.seriouseats.com/recipes/2016/03/israeli-style-tahini-sauce-recipe.html

[Get as a PDF]({{ site.url }}/assets/2016-12-10-starters.pdf)


## Sides

- [Chickpea Salad with Red Onion, Sumac, and Lemon;][chickpea-recipe]
- Fresh salad;
- Cauliflower and Tahini Salad

These are to go with Dads amazing Turkey and couscous. And spuds of course!
Aside from chopping, the only thing that really needs to be done for these
is roasting the cauliflowers, chickpeas, and nuts. Which can all be done the day before.

[View as a PDF you can print]({{ site.url }}/assets/2016-12-10-side-dishes.pdf)

**Chickpea Salad with Red Onion, Sumac, and Lemon**

- 3 cups uncooked chickpeas (or four tins)
- 4 garlic cloves, smashed
- Salt and freshly ground black pepper
- 1 large red onion, sliced very thin
- 1 tablespoon sumac
- 1 teaspoon chili powder
- 1 teaspoon salt
- 1 bunch Italian parsley, leaves finely chopped
- 1 large lemon, juiced (about 3 tablespoons)
- 2 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil
- 2 tablespoons pomegranate syrup **Note: I can get this really easy**
- 5 to 6 sprigs fresh mint

1. Cover the chickpeas with water in a large bowl and soak overnight. Or do a fast soak: Cover with an inch of water in a saucepan and bring to a boil. Turn off the heat, cover, and soak for 1 hour.
2. Drain in the soaked chickpeas. Cover with fresh water and stir in the garlic cloves and a few pinches of salt and pepper. Bring to a boil then lower the heat and simmer for 60 minutes to 2 hours, or until just tender but not falling apart. You can also cook them in the pressure cooker for about 40 minutes (or according to your pressure cooker instructions). When cooked, spread on a large baking sheet to cool.
3. Recipe Shortcut: You can also substitute 4 cans of canned chickpeas. Drain and rinse thoroughly before using. I do encourage you to use freshly cooked chickpeas; they are creamy and tender in a really different way than canned garbanzos.
4. While the chickpeas are cooling, peel and quarter the onion. Shave it as thin as possible into a large bowl, using a very sharp knife or a mandoline. Stir in the sumac, chili powder, and salt. Use your hands to massage the spices and salt into the onions for several minutes. Drain off any liquid that develops in the bottom of the bowl.
5. Add the chickpeas and chopped parsley to the onions and use your hands or two forks to toss everything thoroughly.
6. Whisk together the lemon juice, olive oil, and pomegranate syrup and toss with the salad. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Continue tossing until the onions are fully incorporated and no longer in small clumps. Refrigerate until serving (this salad gets better overnight).
7. Just before serving, finely chop the mint leaves and sprinkle over the salad

**Fresh salad**
- Cherry toms, at least two punets
- Cucumbers
- Crumbly feta
- Parsley
- Lemon
- Oil
- Sunflower seeds
- Almonds
- Walnuts
- sesame seeds

1. Toast nuts
2. Finely chop everything and moosh together

**Cauliflower and Tahini Salad**

This is one we made last year that was an absolute hit. It fits in with this theme,
so why not do it again!
- 2 cauliflowers (large, more if they're small)
- 1 cup chopped corriander
- 1 cup chopped parsley
- 1/2 cup toasted pine nuts (walnuts or almonds work great here too)
- 3 tablespoons of currants soaked for 10-15 minutes
DRESSING
- 250g Greek Yogurt
- 65g Tahini
- 80ml lemon juice
- 80ml olive oil (I wouldn't use this much)

1. Roast Cauliflower
2. Moosh together

[Get as a PDF]({{ site.url }}/assets/2016-12-10-side-dishes.pdf)


# Sweeties

I know we're all trying to be good and whatnot, so we all say that we don't want any dessert.
But then suddenly it's cooling off and we're all full and someone mentions a biscuit.
[Here's the below as a PDF you can print.]({{ site.url }}/assets/2016-12-10-sweeties.pdf)

- Mums divine Almond Snakes **Note: I can get the fresh phyllo down here**
- Figs stuffed with chocolate and walnuts (or dates)
- [Babousa][babousa-recipe]

#### **Babousa**

Pudding ingredients:
- ½ cup plus 2 tbsp unsalted butter
- 1 cup sugar
- 1 cup plain yogurt
- 1 cup fine semolina PLUS 1 cup coarse semolina (or 2 cups coarse semolina or 2 cups original Cream of Wheat enriched farina)
- ⅓ cup milk
- 1 tsp baking powder
- ¼ cup sweetened shredded coconut or coconut chips (I can get these super cheap)
- ¼ cup shaved almonds

Cinnamon Simple Syrup:
- 1½ cup sugar
- 1¾ cup water
- 1 short cinnamon stick
- ¼ tsp lemon juice

Method:

1. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F.
2. Place the butter in a small bowl and melt in the microwave. Set aside.
3. In a large mixing bowl, combine together the sugar and yogurt. Now add in the semolina, baking powder and milk. 4.
4. Finally stir in the melted butter, and let the mixture sit briefly so that the butter is absorbed.
5. Transfer the semolina mixture into a lightly greased 9"-round cake pan or baking dish. Bake in the 350 degrees F-heated oven for about 40-45 minutes. If necessary, broil ever so briefly so that the top of the basbousa gains color. Watch carefully. When ready, remove from oven.
6. While the cake is baking, prepare the cinnamon simple syrup. In a small sauce pan or pot, combine the sugar, water and cinnamon stick. Bring to a boil on high heat, stirring until sugar dissolves. Turn heat to low and let cook for a few minutes until the syrup thickens. Remove from heat and stir in the lemon juice. Let cool completely, then remove the cinnamon stick.
7. As soon as the basbousa is removed from the oven, pour the cool syrup on the hot basbousa. Let cool completely; syrup must be absorbed into the cake. For best result, let it sit for 1 hour before serving.
8. When ready to serve, top the cake with the coconut chips and the coconut and shaved almonds. Slice and enjoy!

[babousa-recipe]: http://www.themediterraneandish.com/basbousa-almond-coconut-semolina-cake/
[chickpea-recipe]: http://thewanderlustkitchen.com/sumac-and-spice-roasted-chickpeas/

[Get as a PDF]({{ site.url }}/assets/2016-12-10-sweeties.pdf)
